= Kronic

A dirt simple library for parsing human readable dates (Today, Yesterday, Last Monday). Both a ruby and a javascript implementation are included.

== Usage

=== Ruby

  gem install kronic

  require 'kronic'
  Kronic.parse("Today")     # => Date.today
  Kronic.format(Date.today) # => "Today"

Supported formats: Today, yesterday, tomorrow, last thursday, this thursday, 14 Sep, 14 June 2010. Any dates without a year are assumed to be in the past (that's what my app needs, so that's what it does).

=== Javascript

  curl http://github.com/xaviershay/kronic/raw/js/lib/js/strftime.js > public/javascripts/strftime.js
  curl http://github.com/xaviershay/kronic/raw/js/lib/js/kronic.js   > public/javascripts/kronic.js

  <script src="/javascripts/strftime.js" type="text/javascript"></script> 
  <script src="/javascripts/kronic.js"   type="text/javascript"></script>
  <script>
    Kronic.parse("Today");
    Kronic.format(new Date());
  </script>

== Compatibility

Kronic does not require ActiveSupport, but if it is present Kronic will use the current time zone. In short, everything should work as you would expect.

Kronic is tested on 1.8.7, 1.9.2, Rubinius, and JRuby.

== Developing

  git clone git://github.com/xaviershay/kronic.git
  bundle install # May take a while, needs to install therubyracer/V8 to test JS
  rake
  open spec/kronic_spec.rb

There are comments to help you along but it is pretty basic code, so everything should make sense pretty quickly. The javascript code is a direct translation of the ruby code, and as such it is undocumented - just refer back to the ruby code. +lib/js/strftime.js+ is an external library bundled here for convenience.

The exact same set of specs are run again the ruby and javascript libraries, so they should be 100% compatible.

Patches welcome! Fork and send a pull request. Please follow coding conventions already in use. If +jsl+ (JSLint) is in your path, rake will run it over the javascript implementation. There are currently no warnings, please keep it that way.
  
== Why not Chronic or Tickle

Chronic and Tickle both parse a *heap* of formats. That's not useful to me when they fail on cases I want (14 Sep), and also not useful because I don't need times or spans. I just want to replace my calendar picker.

In addition, Kronic can take a date and give you a human readable form, neither of which Chronic nor Tickle does.

Oh yeah, Kronic is about 150 lines of code with no dependencies.

== Future

Current release is a release candidate for 1.0, when the API will be declared stable. i18n work has been started in a branch, and also in yolk's fork. I'm not using this personally. Maybe also a flag to toggle the interpretation of dates without years would be nice. Neither of those things will be in 1.0 I don't reckon.
